.\" Man page for rustvault
.TH RUSTVAULT 1 "January 2024" "RustVault 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
rustvault \- secure CLI password manager with encryption and TOTP support

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rustvault
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
RustVault is a secure, feature-rich command-line password manager written in Rust. It provides AES-256-GCM encryption with Argon2id key derivation, hierarchical vault organization, password generation, and TOTP support.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-vault\-path\fR <\fIPATH\fR>
Custom path to vault file (default: ~/.config/rustvault/vault.rustvault)

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information

.SH COMMANDS

.SS Vault Management
.TP
\fBinit\fR
Initialize a new vault with a master password. The master password must be at least 8 characters.

.TP
\fBunlock\fR
Unlock the vault for a session. The vault will auto-lock after 5 minutes of inactivity.

.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Display vault information and statistics.

.SS Entry Management
.TP
\fBentry add\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Add a new password entry. Can be used interactively or with flags.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-title\fR <\fITITLE\fR>
Entry title

.PP
\fB\-\-username\fR <\fIUSERNAME\fR>
Username or email

.PP
\fB\-\-password\fR <\fIPASSWORD\fR>
Password (will prompt if not provided)

.PP
\fB\-\-url\fR <\fIURL\fR>
Website URL

.PP
\fB\-\-notes\fR <\fINOTES\fR>
Additional notes

.PP
\fB\-\-tags\fR <\fITAGS\fR>
Comma-separated tags

.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Target folder (default: root)

.PP
\fB\-\-generate\-password\fR
Generate a secure password instead of prompting

.PP
\fB\-\-password\-length\fR <\fILEN\fR>
Length for generated password (default: 16)

.RE

.TP
\fBentry list\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
List entries in a folder.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Folder to list (default: root)

.PP
\fB\-\-show\-passwords\fR
Display passwords in list

.RE

.TP
\fBentry show\fR <\fIENTRY\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Display entry details.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Folder containing entry (default: root)

.PP
\fB\-\-show\-password\fR
Display password

.PP
\fB\-\-copy\-password\fR
Copy password to clipboard (auto-clears after 30s)

.PP
\fB\-\-copy\-totp\fR
Copy TOTP code to clipboard

.RE

.TP
\fBentry delete\fR <\fIENTRY\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Delete an entry.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Folder containing entry (default: root)

.PP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Skip confirmation prompt

.RE

.SS Folder Management
.TP
\fBfolder add\fR <\fINAME\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Create a new folder.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-parent\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Parent folder path (default: root)

.RE

.TP
\fBfolder list\fR
List all folders.

.TP
\fBfolder delete\fR <\fIPATH\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Delete a folder.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Skip confirmation prompt

.PP
\fB\-\-recursive\fR
Delete folder and all contents

.RE

.SS Password Generation
.TP
\fBgenerate password\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Generate a random password.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-length\fR <\fILEN\fR>
Password length (default: 16)

.PP
\fB\-\-uppercase\fR, \fB\-\-lowercase\fR, \fB\-\-digits\fR, \fB\-\-symbols\fR
Include/exclude character types

.PP
\fB\-\-exclude\-ambiguous\fR
Exclude ambiguous characters (0/O, 1/l/I)

.PP
\fB\-\-exclude\-similar\fR
Exclude similar characters (i, l, 1, L, o, 0, O)

.PP
\fB\-\-copy\fR
Copy to clipboard

.PP
\fB\-\-show\-strength\fR
Display password strength estimate

.RE

.TP
\fBgenerate passphrase\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Generate a word-based passphrase.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-words\fR <\fIN\fR>
Number of words (default: 5)

.PP
\fB\-\-separator\fR <\fISEP\fR>
Word separator (default: "-")

.PP
\fB\-\-capitalize\fR
Capitalize each word

.PP
\fB\-\-include\-number\fR
Append a random number

.PP
\fB\-\-copy\fR
Copy to clipboard

.PP
\fB\-\-show\-strength\fR
Display passphrase strength estimate

.RE

.SS TOTP (Two-Factor Authentication)
.TP
\fBtotp\fR <\fIENTRY\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Display TOTP code for an entry.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR <\fIFOLDER\fR>
Folder containing entry (default: root)

.RE

.SS Search
.TP
\fBsearch\fR <\fIQUERY\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Search for entries matching query.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-full\fR
Show full entry details

.RE

.SS Import/Export
.TP
\fBexport\fR <\fIPATH\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Export vault data.

.RS
.PP
\fB\-\-plaintext\fR
Export as unencrypted JSON (use with caution!)

.RE

.TP
\fBimport\fR <\fIPATH\fR>
Import vault data from JSON file.

.SH EXAMPLES

Initialize a new vault:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault init
.EE
.RE

Add a password entry:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault entry add --title "GitHub" --username "me@example.com"
.EE
.RE

Add entry with generated password:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault entry add --title "AWS" --generate-password --password-length 24
.EE
.RE

Retrieve a password:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault entry show "GitHub" --copy-password
.EE
.RE

Generate a secure password:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault generate password --length 32 --exclude-ambiguous
.EE
.RE

Generate a passphrase:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault generate passphrase --words 6 --capitalize
.EE
.RE

Search for entries:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault search "github"
.EE
.RE

Display TOTP code:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ rustvault totp "Google"
.EE
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/rustvault/vault.rustvault
Default encrypted vault file

.TP
.I ~/.config/rustvault/backups/
Automatic vault backups (keeps last 10)

.SH SECURITY

\fBEncryption:\fR AES-256-GCM (authenticated encryption)

\fBKey Derivation:\fR Argon2id (memory-hard, GPU-resistant)

\fBParameters:\fR 64 MiB memory, 3 iterations, 4 lanes

\fBFile Security:\fR Secure permissions, file locking, atomic writes

\fBMemory Security:\fR Sensitive data zeroed with zeroize crate

.SH CAVEATS

* Master password cannot be recovered (by design for security)
* File locking prevents concurrent vault access
* Clipboard support requires platform-specific dependencies
* TOTP secrets must be manually entered (no QR code scanning)

.SH BUGS

Report bugs at: https://github.com/example/rustvault/issues

.SH LICENSE

MIT License

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBpass\fR(1), \fBkeepassxc-cli\fR(1), \fBbitwarden-cli\fR(1)
